Then this video I'll explain how the NSX edge can be used as a load balancing.
Now what is load balancing.
What do we hope to accomplish.
Well we want to spread out traffic across multiple similar servers.
In this case those servers are going to be virtual machines.
So what we'll do is we'll present a single IP address to the service consumers.
If I have multiple virtual machines handling these requests the consumer will only see one IP rate but
as their traffic arrives at the NSX edge on that one single IP it will be distributed to a pool of virtual
machines that serve a similar purpose this in effect spreads out all of that workload across those servers
and also provides redundancy.
If one of those virtual machines fails it will be removed from that pool.
And therefore we won't be sending requests to a VM that's not operating.
We can configure the NSX edge in a couple of different load balancing modes either transparent or proxy.
And we'll learn more about that as we work our way through this video.
So let's start with a diagram.
Now if you've ever used a load balancer before this isn't a really new concept to you.
So here we see three virtual machines running on our ESX I host that serve the same purpose or call
the web one web to web three.
So in this case the victims are essentially the same.
They're all serving the same purpose and on the client side there is a single IP address called a virtual
IP.
So from the outside to our consumers of the service it looks like a single IP address as the traffic
flows through the load balancer the destination address is going to be changed to one of those web servers
using a destination Nat.
So as this traffic comes in through the adage it's evenly distributed across the three virtual machines
we can have up to 32 servers per pool and up to 64 pools per NSX.
And just bear in mind with this load balancing example we're using destination now that's how those
requests are getting distributed across those three virtual machines.
Now what happens if one of these the AMS fails while the NSX edge load balancer has built in health
checks.
So if a VM fails it's going to be removed from the pool.
And this gives us reliability along with load balancing So in this case let's assume that V.M. web 3
fails the low bounce or is performing a periodic HTP health check and it detects the failure of that
particular virtual machine and therefore traffic will no longer be sent to that pool member.
So as these requests come in that web 3 VM will be removed from the pool and all of the requests will
be sent to the surviving virtual machines.
So load balancing not only gives us load balancing but it also gives us additional reliability.
Now there's a few different modes that the NSX edge load bouncer can operate in.
It can do load balancing at Layer 7.
This is application aware load balancing.
So if you're redirecting traffic by application this mode could be useful.
So for example maybe I've got one virtual machine that's doing p and another virtual machine that's
doing Java and a third VM that's serving up graphics layer 7 load balancing can at the application level
use multiple VMS to fulfill those functions.
Now therefore for load balancing is not as complex.
Essentially all the work is just directed less busy virtual machine
so therefore is a lot simpler.
And if you're just setting up a basic load balancer layer for is the mode that you'll most commonly
select We can also set up our load balancer in either one arm or transparent moët.
So when you create the server pool that you're going to load balance across there is a checkbox that
allows you to select transparent.
And this allows you to choose which mode you want the low bounce or to operate in.
Let's start by looking at transparent mode and then we'll take a look at what our most.
OK so here we see the same diagram that we were looking at before.
We have three CMS web 1 Web 2 and web 3.
The bottom of our screen connected to a logical switch the logical switches connected to a VX LAN left
on the DLR which connects also to a trans at logical switch and provides connectivity to the NSX.
And the NSX edge has one interface connect to transmit logical switch and one interface connected to
the external network.
Let's take a look at how this works.
We've got a packet coming in from some client on the external network the source IP is 1.1 one to 10
that's the IP address of the client the destination IP is my IP address that I've configured on the
edge as the virtual IP for this load balance or poor.
And when this traffic hits the edge Here's what the NSX is going to do in transparent mode.
It will perform a destination Nat Nat traffic.
It's not performing a source that the original source IP still remains intact.
So it performs a destination Nat and picks the IP address of one of these web servers.
In this case is going to be web 1 right.
And it will use different web servers to continually load balance the traffic so because the source
IP remained intact when that traffic arrived the rephrase when that traffic arrives at web one web one
is going to see the true source ip of that client and that can be useful for things like logging or
traffic patterns.
One arm mode works a little bit differently.
So let's take a look at our diagram.
This is a fairly simple option for load balancing is called The one arm load bouncer.
It's also called proxy mode and with this option the traffic is going to arrive at a virtual IP of the
NSX hatch and it's proxied and then it flows back out that same interface that it came in on towards
the web service.
So we saw transparent mode in the previous slide.
This is what our mode and this process is not transparent.
It's just like a proxy server and the IP addresses are going to be modified as a result.
Now in this case the NSX edge is configured with a single interface.
And here comes some traffic from some clients.
Right.
In this case the client is connected to a virtual switch in the same undersexed domain.
And the source IP is 10 not one dot 1.5.
That's the source IP of the client and it wants to send some traffic to the lower bounds or poor.
So the destination IP is the virtual IP the NSX atch 1 9 2 1 6 8 dot 1.5.
So here comes this packet it hits the DLR gets round it and it hits the NSX edge.
Now the NSX edge is going to not only perform a destination nat to send it to one of my web servers
but it's also going to perform a source Nat and replace the original source IP with the IP address of
the NSX at and then that traffic is forwarded to the appropriate pool member.
So in this case the NSX outage only has a single interface but it's essentially acting as a proxy.
So the destination web server doesn't see the true source IP of the client.
Basically all of the traffic that it's going to see is going to have the same source IP the IP address
of the NSX at.
And this can obscure what's happening as we look at those server logs.
It can make it more complicated to kind of try and figure out what's going on.
Now the NSX does support something called X forwarded and X forward it can be used with HTP to preserve
that source IP address so that your logs are still accurate.
Alright so in review the NSX edge provides a load balancer and with that low bounce or we're going to
establish a virtual IP address that's the IP address that the outside world sees that all of our clients
see.
But on the backend there is a pool of virtual machines that that traffic is getting load bounced across
the NSX edge will perform periodic health checks of all of the pool members to ensure that they're still
operating.
And if they fail they'll be removed from that pool in-line or transparent mode performs only a destination
that the original source IPs are what the actual pool of virtual machines.
See if I'm using one arm load balancer both a source and a destination that are perform.